# Natural gas spot price
This project is a published research work utilizing four machine learning algorithms to predict monthly Hnery Hub natural gas spot prices. The publication can be found [here](https://onepetro.org/search-results?page=1&q=SPE%20211979%20MS)

# Table Of Contents
* [Installation](https://github.com/Jess607/Natural-gas-prediction#installation)
* [About the Project](https://github.com/Jess607/Natural-gas-prediction#about-the-project)
* [Data Gathering](https://github.com/Jess607/Natural-gas-prediction#data-gathering)
* [File Description](https://github.com/Jess607/Natural-gas-prediction#file-description)
* [Limitations](https://github.com/Jess607/Natural-gas-prediction#limitations)

# Installation 
The code requires python versions of 3 and above and basic data wrangling and machine learning packages.

# About The Project 
With the adverse effects of climate change ravaging the environment, sustainability has become the buzz word of the decade. Creating and embracing sustainable energy solutions has become a primary need in the fight against climate change. Natural gas being a greener option has been studied over time as the answer to the question. 
This project was inspired by the need to apply machine learning to solve a throbbing issue in the adoption of natural gas as a primary energy source-forecasting natural gas prices. Due to the volatile nature of the gas market, this has proven to be rather difficult over time. 
Four machine learning algoriths were applied, namely:
* Support Vector Regression 
* Random Forest Regression 
* Gradient Boosting Machine 
* Artificial Neural Networks 

Model evaluation was carried out by checking the Root Mean Square Error (RMSE) value generated by each algorithm. The ANN ultimately generated the lowest RMSE in this study.

# Data Gathering 
Data was gathered from the Energy Information Administration (EIA) website and ofx.com to create an independent dataset that was used for analysis and model building.

# File Description 
The folder contains a jupyter notebook file that contains the python code implementaion and a csv file of the data gathered available for download for analysis. 

# Limitations 
* The greatest limitation to the study was the fact that the data gathered was quite sparse. Data gathered was taken from January 2001 to November 2021. This was to account for more recent economic occurrences in the last decade and also due to non availability of some data needed for analysis. 

* The prediction was carried out for long term natural gas price i.e, monthly which may not be as substantially useful as a daily or hourly prediction especially with regards to players in the natural gas market. 



